# A Decision Support System for Salary Increase Eligibility Assessment Using the Analytic Network Process (ANP) and Behaviorally Anchored Rating Scale (BARS): A Case Study of PT Remba Raya Niaga #

Research conducted at PT. Remba Raya Niaga revealed that employee salary increases were sometimes inconsistent with employee performance evaluations and length of service. Salary increases were often given across the board, or sometimes the company estimated salary increases without applying a strong calculation (not according to performance and length of service). As a result, some employees protested, feeling that it was unfair due to the lack of specific evaluation criteria from the company for salary increases. From the above problem, a decision support system was created to determine employee salary increases. The Analytic Network Process (ANP) method is one of the methods in the Decision Support System (DSS), where the ANP method is a development of the Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) method that considers the dependence between criteria and sub-criteria in a hierarchy. The ANP method is systematic and accurate in the decision-making process, able to show the value of employee performance according to the weights and criteria that have been determined. In addition to using the ANP method, there is one more method for a scale that specifically describes good and bad performance, namely the Behaviorally Anchored Rating Scale (BARS) method. The BARS method is an assessment method that targets a combination of critical incidents and ratings (quantified ratings). So that the assessment is easier to understand because there are targets in each indicator of effort to diagnose and reveal individual behavior to be in accordance with company goals.

Keywords: salary increase, employee, performance appraisal, decision support system, Analytic Network Process, Behaviorally Anchored Rating Scale.
